Oxford Bookworms, Stage 1. The Coldest Place on Earth, by
Tim Vickery.
Read by Mark Straker. Published in copyright, Oxford University Press,
1997.
Chapter 1. Two Ships. The Race began in the summer
of 1910. On June 1st, in London, a black ship,
the Terra Nova, went down the river Thames to the
sea. Thousands of people stood by the river to
watch it. They were all excited and happy. On the
Terra Nova, Captain Robert Falcon Scott smiled
quietly. It was a very important day for him. He
was a strong man, not very tall, in the blue
ship. He was 41 years old. But he had a
young face, like a boy. His eyes were dark and
quiet.
One man on the ship, Titus Oates, smiled at Scott.
What an exciting day, Captain, he said. Look at
those people. I feel like an important man. Scott laughed.
You are important, Titus, he said.
And you're going to be famous, too. We all are.
Do you see this flag? He looked at the big
notes. That flag is coming with us, he said. In
the Antarctic, I'm going to carry it under my
clothes. We're going to be the first men at the
South Pole. And that flag is going to be first,
too. Five days later, on June 6th, a man opened
the door of his wooden house in Norway.
He was a tall man with a long face. He
waited outside the house for a minute. Everything was very
only mountains, trees, and water. It was nearly dark. The
sky was black over the mountains.
The man smiled and walked quickly away from the house,
down to the sea.
In the water, a big wooden ship waited for him.
The man got onto the ship and talked and laughed
quietly with his friends. The ship's name was Fram. And
the man was Ruhold Amundsen. The Fram
was the most beautiful ship on Earth, Amundsen thought.
His friends were the best skiers on Earth, too. One
of them, Ulaftbioland,
smiled at him. North Pole, here we come, Captain. He
said,
Yes, Amundsen said. His friends could not see his face
in the dark. Fram is going to the Arctic.
Everyone on the Fram was ready to go to the
North Pole to the Arctic.
Amundsen wanted to go there, too. But first, he wanted
to go south. His friends didn't know that.
At midnight, on June 6th, the Fram moved quietly away
from Amundsen's house, out to sea.
Chapter 2 The Race
The Fram went to an island in the south of
Norway. It was a very little island with only one
small wooden house, two trees, and nearly a hundred dogs.
Look at that, the Orland said. It's an island of
dogs. There are dogs in the water, near the trees,
on the house, dogs everywhere. Two men came out of
the house.
Harsal, Lindstrom, Amundsen said. It's good to see you.
How many dogs do you have for me? 99, Roald
said Harsal, the best 99 dogs from Greenland.
And they're very happy. They don't work. They just eat
and play all day. They're having a wonderful
summer here. Good, good, Amundsen laughed. But that's finished now.
Hey, Yourland, stop laughing. Come down here and help me.
Let's get all these dogs onto the ship.
It was not easy. The dogs were fat and strong,
and they didn't want to go on the ship.
But at last, after three hours' hard work, all 99
were on the ship. And the fram went out to
see again.
The men were not happy. The weather was bad. The
dogs were dirty. And some of the men were ill.
They began to ask questions.
Why are we bringing dogs with us, asked one man,
Johansson?
We're going thousands of kilometers south past Cape Horn and
then north to Alaska.
Why not wait and to get dogs in Alaska?
Don't ask me, said his friend, Helma Honson. I don't
understand it.
The men talked for a long time. Then, on September
9th, Amundsen called everyone to the back of the ship.
He stood quietly and looked at them. Behind him was
a big map.
It was not a map of the Arctic. It was
a map of Antarctica.
The Orland looked at Helma Honson and laughed. Then Amundsen
began to speak.
Boys, he said, I know you are unhappy. You often
ask me difficult questions and I don't answer.
Well, I'm going to answer all those questions now, today.
We began to work for this journey two years ago.
Then, we wanted to be the first men at the
North Pole.
But last year, Perry and American found the North Pole.
So, America was first to the North Pole, not Norway.
We're going there, but we're too late.
I don't understand this, the Orland thought. Why is Amundsen
talking about the North Pole,
with a map of Antarctica behind him?
Amundsen stopped for a minute and looked at all the
men slowly.
No one said anything.
We have to go a long way south before we
get to Alaska, he said.
Very near Antarctica, you know.
And Captain Scott, the Englishman, is going to the South
Pole this year.
He wants to put his British flag there.
An American flag at the North Pole, a British flag
at the South Pole.
The Orland began to understand.
He started to smile and couldn't stop. He was warm
and excited.
Well, boys, Amundsen said slowly.
Do we want the British to put their flag at
the South Pole first?
How fast can we travel?
We have a lot of dogs and some of the
most wonderful skiers on earth.
The Orland here is the best in Norway.
So, I have an idea, boys.
Let's go to the South Pole and put the Norwegian
flag there before the British.
What do you say?
For a minute or two, it was very quiet.
Amundsen waited, and the men watched him and thought.
Then the Orland laughed.
Yes, he said. Why not?
It's a ski race, isn't it? And the English can't
ski.
It's a wonderful idea. Of course. Let's go.
Chapter 3. The ponies
On October 27, the Terranova arrived in Wellington, New Zealand.
When Scott came off the ship, a newspaperman walked up
to him.
Captain Scott, Captain Scott, can I talk to you, please?
He said.
Scott stopped and smiled.
Yes, of course, he said. What do you want to
know?
Are you going to win? The man asked.
When? Scott asked.
When what?
When the race to the South Pole, of course, the
newspaperman said.
It's a race between you and Amundsen now. Look at
this.
He gave a newspaper to Scott. Scott looked at it.
It said,
Fram Brace's Scott to South Pole.
We're going to win, says Amundsen.
Scott's face went white.
Give me that, he said.
He took the newspaper and read it carefully.
The newspaperman watched him and waited.
Well, Captain Scott, he said at blast.
Who's going to win this race? Tell me that.
Scott looked at him angrily. This is stupid, he said.
It's not a race.
I came here to learn about the Antarctic. I'm not
interested in Amundsen, or in races.
Then he walked back onto his ship with the newspaper
in his hand.
Later that day, he talked to his men. He gave
them the newspaper and laughed.
It doesn't matter, he said. We're in front of Amundsen,
and we have more men and more money.
He has only eight men and a lot of dogs.
I know about dogs. They don't work in the Antarctic.
We have 16 men and the new motor sledges. They
are much better.
And tomorrow the ponies are coming. We need ponies, motor
sledges, and good strong British men.
That's all. Forget about Amundsen. He's not important.
Scott asked oats to look after the ponies, but he
did not let oats buy them.
When oats first saw the ponies in New Zealand, he
was very unhappy. Most of the ponies were old,
and some of them were ill.
They're beautiful ponies, Titus, Scott said. They come from China.
They're wonderful ponies.
Oats looked at them angrily and said nothing.
Then he asked, where is their food, Captain?
Yeah, Scott opened a door. Oats looked inside. He thought
for a minute.
We need more food than this, Captain Scott. These ponies
are going to work in the coldest place on earth.
They need a lot of food, more than this.
Scott smiled quietly. We can't take more food on this
ship, Titus. Where can we put it?
But it doesn't matter, old boy. They're very strong ponies,
you know. The best ponies on earth.
Later that night, oats wrote a letter to his mother.
There are 19 ponies on the Terranova now, he wrote.
All the ponies are in a small room at the
front of the ship.
We eat our food in the room under the ponies,
so our table is often wet and dirty.
Scott makes a lot of mistakes, I think.
And Antarctica is a very dangerous place.
Chapter 4
Food Depos
The two ships, Terranova and Fram,
arrived in Antarctica in January 1911, at the end of
summer.
The Englishmen and the Norwegians wanted to stay on the
ice all winter.
They wanted to be ready to go to the south
pole at the beginning of the next Antarctic summer.
The dogs pulled the Norwegians sledges. They rang quickly over
the snow,
and pulled the big sledges from the ship onto the
ice. The men ran beside them on skis.
They put a big wooden house on the ice. The
house was full of food and skis and sledges.
They called it Framheim.
Outside the house, the dogs lived in holes under the
snow.
When the house was ready, the men made their first
journey south.
Before the winter, they wanted to take a lot of
food south, and leave it in depots.
For the long journey to the pole, they needed a
lot of food, and they couldn't carry it all with
them.
On February 10th, five men, three sledges, 18 dogs, and
half a ton of food left Framheim and went south.
It was easy. The weather was warm for the Antarctic
between minus 7 degrees centigrade and minus 17
degrees centigrade. The snow was good, and the dogs and
skis went fast.
They went 50 or 60 kilometers every day. After four
days, they reached 80 degrees south and made
the first depot.
Amundsen made his depot very carefully. It was very important
to find it again next summer.
So he put a big black flag on top. Then
he put 10 flags to the east of the depot.
Each flag, half a kilometer from the next, and 10
flags to the west.
So there were flags for five kilometers to the left
of the depot and five kilometers to the right.
Then they went back to Framheim and took some more
food south.
This time to 82 degrees south. This time it was
harder. The temperature was sometimes minus 40 degrees centigrade,
and there were strong winds with a lot of snow.
The dogs and men were very tired,
and the tents and boots were bad. At the second
depot, they put out 60 flags to help them find
it again.
They came back to Framheim on March 23rd. It was
nearly winter in the Antarctic. Their ship,
Fram, was far away now, near South America. They were
alone on the ice.
Oats went with Scott to make the first British depot.
They left Cape Evans on January 25th.
There were 13 men, 8 ponies, and 26 dogs. The
dogs were faster than the ponies. They ran quickly
over the top of the snow, but the ponies' feet
went through it. Every morning, the ponies started
first, and the dogs started two hours later, because they
ran faster.
At night, the dogs made warm holes under the snow,
but the ponies stood on top of the snow.
It was minus 20 degrees centigrade.
After 15 days, oats talked to Scott. There was a
strong wind, and the two men's faces were white with
snow.
Three of the ponies are ill, Captain, oats said. They
can't go on.
Don't be stupid, oats, Scott answered. They're good, strong animals.
The best ponies on earth.
Not these three, oats said. They're ill and unhappy, and
now they can't walk. Let's kill them and leave
the meat here in the snow. We can eat it,
or the dogs can.
Of course not, Scott said angrily. These ponies are our
friends. They work hard for us.
I don't kill my friends. Three days later, two of
the ponies were dead.
Scott's men were slower than Amundsons. It took them 24
days to get to 80 degrees south.
They made a big depot there, and put one large
black flag on top of it. Then they went back
to Cape Evans.
Their camp was on an island in the ice, and
the sea ice moved sometimes. There were holes in the
ice and black sea water under it.
One day, seven ponies went through the ice into the
sea and died.
One motor sledge also went into the sea.
Chapter 5 A Long Cold Winter
It was dark for four months. Outside the wooden house
at Framheim,
it was often minus 60 degrees centigrade. The dogs lived
in warm holes under the snow.
The men stayed in the house and worked in their
rooms under the snow.
The skis and sledges came from the best shops in
Norway, but Beorland wasn't happy with them.
He changed a lot of things on the skis and
sledges. Soon, the sledges were stronger than before.
The skis were better and faster too. All the Norwegians
worked hard. They looked after their dogs
and worked on their equipment. The sledges, skis, tents. Every
day, they thought about their
journey to the pole and talked about it. And every
day, Amundsen thought about Scott.
One day, in mid-winter, he talked to his men.
Let's start early before Scott, Amundsen said. Remember, Scott has
more men than us,
and he has motor sledges too. Perhaps, they can go
faster than us. Beorland laughed.
Oh no, they can't go faster than me, he said.
On snow, nothing can go faster than a good man
on skis. We don't know, Amundsen said. You're the best
skier in Norway, but you get tired,
and dogs get tired too. Motor sledges don't get tired.
They can go all day
and all night. You, Hansen, laughed angrily. That's stupid, he
said.
Perhaps the motor sledges can go all night, but the
Englishmen can't.
The English can't win, Roald. They don't understand snow, but
we do. And they're too slow.
Perhaps, Amundsen said, but I want to win this race.
So, we're going to start early. Do you understand?
It was quiet and warm inside Framheim. Beorland looked at
Amundsen and thought about the long,
cold journey in front of him. He thought about the
dogs in their holes,
under the snow, and listened to the wind over the
house.
When, Roald, he said quietly, on August 24th, the sun
comes back on that day. We start then.
But we can't, you Hansen said. He looked angry and
unhappy. That's too early. We can't start then.
It's dangerous and stupid. Amundsen looked at you Hansen coldly.
You're wrong, you Hansen, he said. We want to win,
remember? So we start on August 24th.
Beorland listened to the winter wind outside.
In Scott's camp at Cape Evans, no one talked about
Amundsen and no one worked hard.
They had good food and they played football on the
snow.
They wrote a newspaper, the South Polar Times, and read
books.
No one learned to ski, no one worked on the
motor sledges. Twice, men went for long journeys
across the snow. They walked and pulled the sledges themselves.
Oats stayed at Cape Evans
and looked after his ponies. Over the window in Cape
Evans, Scott put a map of Antarctica.
With a pen, he made a line from Cape Evans
to the South Pole, and he put a little British
flag
at the pole. Under the map, Scott wrote the day
for the start of their journey.
We start on November 3rd, he wrote.
Chapter 6 A Bad Start
On August 23rd, the Norwegian sledges were ready. They took
them outside and the dogs pulled them
out of the ice. The sun came up for half
an hour, but it was too cold, minus 46 degrees
centigrade. They could not travel in that weather. They went
back to Franheim and waited.
They waited two weeks until September 8th. Then, with the
temperature at minus 37 degrees centigrade,
they started. They ran happily across the snow to the
South. Eight men, seven sledges, and 86 dogs.
Only Lindstrom, the cook, stayed behind in Franheim.
At first, everything went well. They went 28 kilometers on
Saturday and 28 kilometers on Sunday.
It was easy. Then, on Monday, the temperature went down
to minus 56 degrees centigrade.
There was white fog in front of their faces. They
couldn't see anything, but they traveled 28
kilometers. That night, in their tents, they nearly died of
cold. Next day, they stopped and made snow
houses. Inside the snow houses, it was warm. But everyone
was unhappy.
I told you, Ruweld, you Hansen said, even September is
too early. We can't travel in this cold.
Do you want us to die? Let's go back and
wait for better weather.
Amundsen was very angry. He was angry with Johansson, but
he was angry with himself, too.
He knew Johansson was right.
All right, he said slowly. We can go on to
the depot at 80 degrees south,
leave the food there, and then go back. We can't
do more than that.
It was 37 kilometers to the depot. The wind was
in their faces all day. Two dogs died on the
way.
At the depot, they did not stop. They put out
the food and the flags, turned round and went north.
At Glassed, the wind was behind them. The dogs ran
quickly, and the men sat on the empty sledges.
They went faster and faster. It was like a race.
Amundsen was on Visting's sledge, and soon he,
Visting and Hansen were three or four kilometers in front.
Soon, they were alone. They traveled 75
kilometers in nine hours, and they reached Framheim at four
o'clock that afternoon.
Vjorland arrived two hours later, with two more men. But
the last two, Johansson and
Prestrude, went more slowly. Their dogs were tired. Their feet
were wet and cold. They had no food,
and they were alone in the dark. The temperature was
minus 51 degrees centigrade. They reached
Framheim at midnight. Next morning, Johansson was angry. In front
of everyone, he said,
You were wrong, Ruhald. September was too early. I told
you, but you didn't listen.
And then you left us alone, and we nearly died
in the cold. You're a bad captain. I'm a better
captain than you are. Amundsen was very angry. But, at
first, he said nothing,
because he knew that Johansson was right. Then, that evening,
he gave a letter to Johansson.
It said, You aren't coming to the pole with me.
When I go south, you can take some dogs and
go east,
took in Edward the Seventh Land. You can go with
Prestrude and Stuberude. You can be the first men
to go there, but not to the south pole. The
Norwegians stayed in Framheim and waited.
They lay in bed, listened to the wind outside, and
thought about Scott and his motor sledges.
Chapter 7. Motor sledges and mountains.
Scott had two motor sledges now. They were the first
motor sledges in the Antarctic,
the first on Earth. On October 24, the motor sledges
started south from Cape Evans.
Four men went with them, but Scott stayed at Cape
Evans for another week.
Oats was unhappy. He wrote to his mother, We had
a very bad winter here. I don't like Scott.
We were here all winter, but he didn't learn to
ski or to drive dogs.
Our equipment is bad, and he doesn't think about other
people.
I'm going to sleep in his tent on the journey,
but I don't want to.
On November 1, Scott and Oats and six more men
left Cape Evans with eight sledges and eight ponies.
The ponies walked slowly because their feet went down into
the snow.
It was hard work for them, and they got tired
very quickly.
They traveled 13 or 14 kilometers in a day.
Behind the ponies came miers with one sledge and some
dogs.
Miers knew how to drive dogs. Every day, miers started
two hours after the ponies
and arrived two hours before them.
After five days, they found the motor sledges.
The Norwegians began again on October 20. There were five
men this time.
Amundsen, Beorland, Visting, Harsell, and Hanssen.
They had four sledges and 48 dogs. There was a
lot of wind and fog.
On the first day, Visting's sledge suddenly stopped, and the
back went down.
Come on, you dogs. He said angrily. Bull! Bull!
At first, nothing happened. Then, slowly, the sledge moved again.
Visting looked down over the side of the sledge. Under
the snow, there was a 50-meter hole.
Did you see that? Amundsen said. The ice wants to
eat us. Men, dogs, sledges, everything.
On the fourth day, they reached the depot at 80
degrees south.
There was a bad snowstorm, but they found the flags
easily.
Next day, the men stayed in their tents, and the
dogs played in their holes under the snow.
They were all happy. They had a lot of food.
They had good equipment, and they were warm.
They could travel fast.
Next morning, the snowstorm stopped, and the journey began again.
Today, everything is wonderful. The Orland wrote in his diary,
but where is Scott, in front of us, or behind?
There was no one with the motor sledges. They were
broken. Scott looked at them angrily.
It doesn't matter, he said. Teddy Evans and his men
are in front of us. They're good men.
They're pulling their sledges themselves. We can get to the
pole on foot.
Oats looked at meers. Oats and the ponies were tired,
but meers and his dogs were not.
The snow was home for them.
That night, Oats wrote, three motor sledges at 1,000
pounds each, 19 ponies at 5 pounds each,
32 dogs at 1 pound 50 each. Well, it's not
my money, it's Scott's.
On November 21st, one of the ponies died.
On November 11th, the Norwegians saw the mountains.
The mountains were very high, some of the highest on
earth. The Orland smiled.
There is good skiing up there, Oald, he said. But
can dogs get up there too?
Of course they can, Amundsen said. Come on.
They left Hanssen with the dogs, and skied a little
way up the mountains.
It was difficult, but the mountains were big and beautiful.
Behind the mountains, Amundsen thought there was a high plateau
of ice.
That's it, Amundsen said. That's the road to the pole.
Tomorrow, we can bring the dogs and sledges up here.
But now, let's have a ski race. Who can get
back to camp first?
They laughed, and skied happily down the white snow.
This is like home, Beorland thought, but it's bigger than
Norway and better.
In the next four days, the dogs pulled the sledges
81 kilometers
and went up 3,000 meters.
At last, Amundsen and Beorland stood on the plateau behind
the mountains.
They were tired, happy men.
Beorland looked back at the mountains.
Can a motor sledge get up here? He asked.
Amundsen smiled.
No, he said. I don't think so.
And Scott doesn't like dogs, so his men are going
to pull their sledges up these mountains themselves.
Would you like to do that, Ulaf?
Beorland didn't answer.
He smiled and skied happily away across the snow.
The
Chapter 8 Across the Plateau
On November 21st, the Norwegians killed 30 dogs.
They were happy, Amundsen said, and now they're going to
die quickly.
We need three sledges and 18 dogs to go to
the pole.
When the dogs were dead, the other dogs ate them.
The men ate them, too.
They were good friends, Beorland wrote in his diary.
And now they are good food.
Two days later, the dogs were fat.
Then, in the snowstorm, they began their journey again.
After the snowstorm, there was fog.
And in the fog, they got lost on an ice
river with hundreds of big holes in it.
They could see nothing, and it was very dangerous.
In four days, they moved nine kilometers.
But the ice is beautiful, Beorland wrote.
Blue and green and white.
This is a wonderful place, but I don't want to
stay a long time.
After the ice, there were strong winds and bad snowstorms.
They could see nothing in front of them.
But every day, they traveled 25 or 30 kilometers.
Then, on December 9th, the sun came out.
They were at 88 degrees, 23 minutes south, 175 kilometers
from the pole.
Five more long days, Beorland wrote.
That's all now. But where is Scott?
For four days, Scott's men stayed in their tents near
the mountains.
There is a bad snowstorm outside, Oates wrote.
It's too cold for the ponies, and our clothes and
skis are bad too.
On December 9th, Oates killed the ponies.
They were tired and ill, and they could not walk
up to the plateau.
Their mirrors and his dogs went back to Cape Evans.
We can pull the sledges ourselves, Scott said.
We can do it. We're all strong men.
There were two sledges and eight men.
They went 24 kilometers a day.
On December 31st, Scott said to Teddy Evans and the
men on the second sledge,
You can't ski well. Leave your skis here.
So they pulled their sledge 24 kilometers without skis.
Next day, Scott went to Teddy Evans' tent.
You're ill, Teddy, he said. You can't come to the
pole.
Take two men and go back, tomorrow.
Teddy Evans was very unhappy.
Two men, Captain, he said.
Why not three?
Because Bowers is going to come with me, Scott said.
Be strong. We need him.
But you have food on your sledge for four men,
not five, Evans said.
And Bowers has no skis.
I'm the captain, Teddy, Scott said.
You do what I say.
Take two men and leave Bowers with me.
Oats wrote to his mother.
I'm going to the pole with Scott.
I am pleased and I feel strong.
But in his diary, he wrote,
My feet are very bad.
They are always wet now, and they don't look good.
On January 4th, Scott's man left Teddy Evans and went
on.
Scott, Oats, Wilson, and Edgar Evans had skis, but Bowers
did not.
They were 270 kilometers from the pole.
December 14th, 1911 was a warm, sunny day.
Five Norwegians skied over the beautiful white snow.
It was very quiet.
No one spoke.
They were excited and happy.
Six more kilometers, Biorland thought.
Is there a British flag?
I can't see a flag, but...
Look, Harsel said.
What's that over there?
Biorland left his sledge and see quickly a way over
the snow.
What is it?
He thought.
Is it?
No.
It's nothing, he called.
There's nothing there.
Nothing.
Three kilometers, two.
Rewald!
Hansen called to Amundsen.
Go in front of me, please.
It helps my dogs.
That's not true, Biorland thought.
His dogs are running well today.
But Hansen wants Amundsen to be first.
The first man at the South Pole.
They skied on and on, over the beautiful snow.
Stop, Amundsen said.
He waited quietly for his men.
And this is it, he said.
Biorland looked at him.
But there's nothing here, he said.
Amundsen smiled.
Oh, yes, there is, he said.
There's something very important here, Ulaf.
Very, very important.
What's that draw up?
Us, we are here now.
Isn't that important, Ulaf?
The four men stood on the snow and looked at
him.
Then, slowly, they all began to laugh.
Chapter 9, the End of the Race
The Norwegians stayed two days at the Pole.
They left a tent there with a Norwegian flag on
it.
Inside the tent, they left some food, a letter for
the King of Norway,
and a letter for Scott.
They left some more black flags near the Pole and
one 28 kilometers north.
Then they skied away, back to the north.
It's a beautiful day, Biorland wrote.
The sun is warm, the snow is good.
But the dogs run too quickly, I can't get in
front of them.
They found their depots easily.
There were ten between the Pole and Framheim.
Each depot had a lot of food.
They laughed and skied quickly down the mountains.
Often, they skied 50 kilometers a day.
On Friday, January 26, 1912, they came back to Framheim.
It was four o'clock in the morning.
Inside the wooden house, Lindstrom, the cook, was asleep.
Amundsen walked quietly to his bed.
Good morning, Lindstrom, he said.
He's our coffee, ready?
The black flags waited at the Pole.
What's that, Captain?
Bower said, over there.
Where?
Scott asked, what?
Oh, my God.
They all saw the small black flag in the snow,
two kilometers in front of them.
Slowly, they pulled their sledge to it.
Next day, January 17th, 1912, they found the tent and
the Norwegian flag.
Near it, Scott took the British flag from under his
clothes and put it up.
In his diary, Scott wrote,
This is a very bad day.
We're all tired and have cold feet.
And hands, which is minus 30 degrees centigrade.
And there is a snowstorm.
Great God, this is an awful place.
They turned north, five tired, unhappy men, in the coldest,
emptiest place on earth.
On March 13th, 1912, Scott's wife, Kathleen, looked at her
morning newspaper.
Norway's flag at South Pole, it said.
She looked at it for a long time and then
began to cry.
What's the matter, her friend asked.
My poor, poor husband, Mrs. Scott said.
What's happened to him?
Where is he now?
Scott's men were always hungry.
There were not many depots and they were difficult to
find.
We need to find the next depot today, Oates wrote.
But how can we find one black flag in all
this snow?
It's very difficult.
And there is food for four men, not five.
They were all tired and ill too.
Oates's feet were black now and he could not feel
them.
On February 16th, Edgar Evans died.
On the 17th, they were past the mountains.
At the depot there, they ate one of the dead
ponies.
Then they went on, 10, 11, 12 kilometers a day.
They were ill because their clothes were not warm and
they didn't have much food.
The temperature was sometimes minus 40 degrees centigrade.
On March 7th, Scott looked at Oates's feet.
They were big and black.
I can't pull the sledge now, Oates said.
It's very difficult to walk.
Am I going to lose these feet, Captain?
Scott looked at Oates's feet and said nothing.
On March 9th, they found another depot, but there was
not much food.
Slowly, they walked on.
Oates's feet were worse every day.
March 17th was Oates's birthday.
He was 32.
He lay in the tent and listened to the wind
outside.
He was very cold, very hungry, and very, very tired.
He wrote a letter to his mother and gave it
to Wilson.
Then he got up and opened the door of the
tent.
He stopped in the door for a minute.
Scott, Wilson, and Bowers looked at him.
They didn't speak.
I'm going outside for a minute, Oates said.
And maybe sometime.
They didn't see him again.
At Cape Evans, the Englishman waited.
On December 11th, Mears and the Dogs came back.
On January 3rd, Teddy Evans and his two men arrived
at Cape Evans.
The Terranova came and went.
Winter began.
Scott did not come.
The Englishman waited all winter at Cape Evans.
Then on October 26th, 1912, they started for the South.
Two weeks later, they found a tent.
There were three bodies in the tent.
Scott, Wilson, and Bowers.
They put the bodies under the snow.
Then they took the men's letters and diaries
and went north to Cape Evans again.
In Scott's diary, they read,
Oates died like a good Englishman.
We all did.
Please remember us and look after our families.
We did our best.
No one found Oates's body.
But he is there somewhere under the snow and the
wind
in the coldest, emptiest place on Earth.